[ADR] Secret Value Syntax (#38)
straw-hat-team/adr: adrs/3610135900/README.md

# Secret Value Syntax

- **State:** Draft
- **Created:** 2023-08-13
- **Tags:** secret

## Context

The current ecosystem lacks a standardized format for secret values. This
decentralization of secret format decisions leads to a situation where
developers often define the format themselves. Such a disparate approach results
in many developers either forgetting to set up scanning tools or being unable to
utilize preconfigured scanning tools.

> The lack of a consistent secret format introduces vulnerabilities and potential
> security risks. The changes in GitHub Authentication Token Formats, among other

Reviewer: > The lack of a consistent secret format introduces vulnerabilities and potential security risks.

I don't buy this line.  

🤔 If you perfectly protect your secrets, then they can be in any format you want, and the result would be the same, zero exposure.   However, once "the mistake" does happen and the vulnerability is introduced, the lack of a consistent format undermines security scans.

```suggestion
The lack of a consistent secret format hinders tools that would otherwise help guard against vulnerabilities and potential
security risks. The changes in GitHub Authentication Token Formats, among other
```

for a more standardized approach.

### Decision Drivers:

**Security:** A standard format would enable more effective use of secret
scanning tools, reducing the chances of leaks or unauthorized access.

**Consistency:** A consistent secret format can streamline processes and reduce
the chance of human error.

**Usability:** Developers can more easily take advantage of preconfigured
scanning tools with a standardized format.

## Resolution

The agreed-upon structure will be similar to the URN syntax:

```text
SECRET = "secret:[NID]:[NSS]:[secret value]
```

- "secret:" is the required case-sensitive scheme at the beginning.
- NID (Namespace Identifier) defines the specific context or namespace.
  It isa optional case-sensitive and consist of only alphanumeric characters and
  dashes value. Regex: `[a-z0-9-]`.
- NSS (Namespace-Specific String) is unique within the specific namespace.
  It is a optional case-sensitive and consist of only alphanumeric characters
  and dashes value. Regex: `[a-z0-9-]`.

The secret regex value is:

```regexp
^secret:(?:[a-z0-9-]*):(?:[a-z0-9-]*):(.+)$
```

For example, a Personal Access Token for GitHub could be in the format:

```text

> secret:github:ghp:[.... secret value ....]

Reviewer: Suggestion: use an example that shows the NSS is not a substitute for the `ghp_` prefix GitHub uses

```suggestion
secret:github:ghp:ghp_000000000000000000000000000000000000
```
